The paper proposes an implementation of the population learning algorithm designed to solve instances of the quadratic assignment problem. A short overview of the population-learning algorithm and a more detailed presentation of the proposed implementation is followed by the results of computational experiments carried. Particular attention is given to investigating performance characteristics and convergence of the PLA. Experiments have focused on identification of the probability distribution of solution time to a sub-optimal target value.

The techniques used to solve difficult optimization problems have evolved from constructive algorithms to local search techniques, and finally to population-based meta-heuristics. Population based methods are optimization techniques inspired by natural evolution processes. Among best known population-based methods are evolutionary algorithms. Despite the fact that evolutionary algorithms, in general, lack a strong theoretical background, the application results were more than encouraging. This success has led to emergence of numerous techniques, algorithms and their clones. Among well known population-based methods are: scatter search technique, ant colony algorithm, particle swarm optimization algorithm, cultural algorithm, memetic algorithm and greedy randomized adaptive search procedure.
Population learning algorithm (PLA) was proposed in [2] as yet another population-based method, which can be applied to support solving difficult decision-making and optimization problems. Thus far PLA has been successfully applied to solving a variety of difficult scheduling problems. 
The algorithm proved also successful in the domain of ANN training.
In this paper an implementation of the PLA designed to solve instances of the quadratic assignment problem
(QAP) is studied and validated. The goal of this research was to investigate the PLA performance while dealing with one of the most difficult, widely researched and  best-known combinatorial optimization problems. Section 2 of the paper offers a short overview of the population-learning algorithm. Section 3 gives details of the proposed implementation.  In section 4 the results of computational experiments carried with a view to validate the implementation are discussed. Particular attention is paid to investigating performance characteristics and convergence of the PLA. Experiments have also focused on identification of the probability distribution of solution time to a sub-optimal target value. 